# AMQP vs MQTT: Comparing Instant Messaging Protocols

| Field              | AMQP               | MQTT                 |
| ------------------ | ------------------ | -------------------- |
| Messaging Patterns | support many       | only pub-sub pattern |
| SSL                | built in TSL, SASL | need to add manually |
| Reliability        | 3 level of QoS     | 3 level of QoS       |
| Extensible         | easy               | not easy             |
| Support Library    | many               | many                 |
| Bandwidth          | higher             | low                  |
| Message Size       | bigger             | small                |

"Usage Examples of MQTT and AMQP

MQTT and AMQP are both widely used for commercial products.

While originally designed for embedded devices, MQTT has evolved over time. It's now even used for social apps. Facebook Messenger and Instagram both use MQTT for their mobile chat functionality.

Outside of chat and social apps, MQTT is used extensively in the IoT world. Amazon Web Services, IBM Watson, and Microsoft Azure all use MQTT as their main communication protocol, though most also support AMQP.

While AMQP doesn’t share MQTT’s popularity in the social media space, it more than makes up for it in the commercial industries. It’s widely used in critical systems in the financial, telecommunications, defense, manufacturing, internet, and cloud computing industries.

JPMorgan sends over a billion AMQP messages each day which connect their many complex financial systems. Other companies that rely on AMQP for their day-to-day operations include Google, NASA, Mozilla, AT&T, IBM, and the National Science Foundation. Obviously, this list is not exhaustive. In fact, there are over 500 commercial users of AMQP."

Source [cometchat.com/blog/amqp-vs-mqtt-comparing-instant-messaging-protocols](https://www.cometchat.com/blog/amqp-vs-mqtt-comparing-instant-messaging-protocols)

